When was the last time your ERP system was upgraded? Not only patched, mended, or fiddled with it—but really executed a significant overhaul that sparked interest, sparked actual business innovation, and inspired a burst of creativity and productivity among your users? The same passion that users have for websites or iPhone applications like Instagram, Spotify, Netflix, etc.

That might as well be in the Neolithic Period in the fast-paced world we live in today. Your ERP was most likely created when fax machines were common. Continued to be relevant, channels grew gradually over time and expanding worldwide required owning costly global infrastructure to support development.

The world is developing more quickly than ever, yet ERP installations seem to be stuck in the past. time. It seems unlikely that a firm might benefit from an antiquated, five-year-old ERP system in an extremely busy environment. The world of consumer apps and corporate software as a whole has changed due to technology. Social media and mobile devices are now used by workers to communicate, and web-based connections across apps are growing. But numerous ERP This seismic shift has gone unnoticed by everyone; it's as if the iPhone never existed, social networking was a far-off idea, etc. Even for the handful experimenting, integrating ERP into online channels was a strange idea.

No longer does it matter which country you are from or where you live. But there's a significant distinction.




Cloud-based ERP and on-premises ERP

Businesses using on-premises ERP systems are forced to pay annual maintenance fees, frequent hardware upgrades, and fees to get the newest software releases. But what use is it if you can't update your ERP implementation to benefit from change and maintain the effectiveness of your business?

The unfortunate truth is that practically every firm. Their in-house ERP's fatal flaw is "version-lock." modifications made to an ERP years ago, some implementation that looked harmless at first has grown with time. Because upgrading to on-premises technology necessitates re-implementing and testing those customized modifications, integrations, processes, and reports, your ERP gradually becomes more resistant to change.

Your organization may be essentially trapped in a "version lock" with an outdated ERP system that is becoming more and more out of step with the demands of the business due to excessive risk, expense, and resource requirements for what may appear to be an incremental upgrade.

Users circumvent your system by utilizing inefficient manual procedures and spreadsheets to cover functional gaps.
To remain competitive with your competitors, having an ERP system that can only be upgraded every four to five years (at most) is just insufficient peers. Technology and business are now evolving so rapidly that even if you invest $1.5 million and six months on an ERP upgrade, the finished product will probably be outdated. The time it's finished. An outdated ERP is inherently incompatible with a successful organizational structure.

Check out these five ways your outdated ERP system is limiting your company's growth.




Legacy ERP consumes your IT budget's innovation-

The secret to understanding how closely your ERP & how much of the IT budget is spent on innovation as opposed to maintenance depends on your company's needs. How much time can IT dedicate to resolving this issue? rather than routine tasks like patches, updates, and maintenance, a new business needs to manage its infrastructure and take calls. Do the arithmetic and take a close look at the outdated, version-locked ERP system you are using today.

Decentralized business systems are reported to consume up to 90% of a company's IT expenditure, leaving little space for innovation.

The IT budget can be swiftly depleted by subsequent recurring maintenance costs, infrastructure improvements, integrations, and continuing IT maintenance. With outdated ERP, it is nearly hard to simply flip the script and shift the IT budget from maintenance to innovation since every pricey old on-premises ERP upgrade, patch, and fix represents a lost chance to customize ERP to the needs of the company. Even worse, there isn't much left over for the management of crucial areas like security and dependability. 

However, your rivals have already altered their spending plans. Switching to the cloud may drastically lower your IT infrastructure expenditures. Your total cost of ownership may decrease if you switch to a cloud-based system since it requires less hardware, updates, patches, and other maintenance.




An outdated ERP reduces the speed of your organization-

The internet allows for quick globalization of business. It now just takes a year or two to reach many millions of clients, as opposed to the previous decade or more. Some of today's publicly traded businesses that are expanding quickly do so because they are not constrained by their on-premises ERP systems.

Who knows where these businesses would be now if they had relied on an upgrade to the setup of their on-premises ERP system to benefit from innovation?

Be this day? Running an outdated installation of an on-premises system that was created for when organizations evolved incrementally—country by country, market by market, over years and decades—reduces your capacity to compete. For each market, numerous ERP systems and databases had to be deployed in the past. Employing IT personnel as necessary, establishing and setting up offices, buying gear and software, and going through laborious setup procedures IT money, resources, and time were the constraints limiting corporate growth.

The motor for expansion is provided by cloud applications like NetSuite, which allow enterprises to establish an application footprint for each nation and not in months or years, but rather in weeks. Businesses don't have to worry about scaling up expensive IT resources or having to spend a lot of money on IT infrastructure thanks to cloud ERP. Velocity is the end outcome, and it gives you a real competitive edge.




A mobile workforce competes with an antiquated and static ERP-

Generation millennials starting their careers expect user-friendly platforms that resemble social media platforms or online stores and progressively obfuscate the distinction between business and personal life. The greatest strategy for a business of any size to maintain its competitiveness continues to be to put the right people in the right places with the appropriate tools. However, if your ERP system was created when work was done in cubicles and consumer and business computers were clearly segregated, you will run into issues.

If you use an old ERP, you will either have to fully give up on accessing your information from locations outside of your office, battle sluggish connections, or put up with it.

Virtual private networks (VPNs) suffer from excruciatingly sluggish client-server interactions—not to mention the related IT and maintenance expenditures.

Additionally, it entails having no access to business activities while on the road or needing to travel to the office to approve a sales order. Simply put, as a result, your staff is less productive than they could be and you make slower judgments based on stale information.

The "anytime, everywhere" workforce of the post-PC age was never intended for old ERP, but cloud solutions are. In truth, your outdated ERP system from the PC era will never be simple to access via mobile devices because it was not initially designed with the web in mind and, in some cases, was developed before the internet was invented.




Your workers' access to self-service is restricted by outdated ERP-

When firms were overburdened with general administration and it was customary to designate someone to handle everything, Someone created the Stone Age ERP. Compared to rekeying time and expenditure or purchase order entries. Managers may delegate their reporting to finance, and ERP procedures can be altered by another IT specialist.

Lean firms benefit from cloud ERP, which harnesses the power of the use of the internet to promote employee self-service, much as the internet has safely transformed technologies for consumer self-service and internet banking. Banks have known for years that providing online self-service to clients boosts profitability and reduces waste.


Self-service efficiencies for employees that utilize the cloud are achievable but not with outdated ERP. They might provide time and expenditure records, purchase orders, and even receipts entered straight into the ERP via a web page or mobile device, wherever you are. Once these transactions have been filed, all that remains is for them to be approved online. Self-service tools for managing change include graphical processes, forms, and schema updates that don't need to wait or engage IT. "Reporting analysts" traditionally delegate the task of reporting to Managers.




The demand for real-time information is not satiated by legacy ERP-

If you use legacy ERP, you already know the result. Spreadsheets are used to operate your business, & Management reporting mistakes are common. Personnel spends most of their time reporting.

The process of creating bookings, billings, reporting on backlogs, or periodic budgeting and forecasts often takes days. You're always battling to get data that's hidden in spreadsheets and unconnected systems like ERP & now businesses can track real-time website visitor statistics, marketing campaign replies, and ad effectiveness.

The business needs an ERP that is made for today's demands, not yesterday's needs, in order to compete & analytics & BI should be integrated into the ERP. Every employee must have access to customized key performance indicators (KPIs) in real-time. Be able to see the invoice that is behind the day's sales outstanding (DSO). Threshold statistics, and ensure organization-wide visibility.

Cloud ERP liberates businesses from the brittle, rigid, and change-resistant ERP of the past. Businesses may utilize ERP that runs on the cloud to be "version-less," and as a result, new functionality to support the newest legislation, organizations receive the latest information immediately. No more waiting, expensive upgrades, or risks. Outdated ERP is over.

For more than 20 years, Oracle NetSuite has helped businesses grow, scale, and adapt. NetSuite offers an integrated system. More than 31,000 customers in 217 countries & dependent territories use it for ERP/finances. Additionally, a powerful ERP system gives users complete control over roles, assignments, and permissions. Assuring the accuracy and accessibility of user accounts.
